= What is it ? =

This page describes usage of Hibernate Smoke Detector, a simple parser that counts queries executed in each second
and generates a report showing places where might be some problems, eg. n+1 problem or non optimal number of counts
on page testing visibility of many elements. Parser can be also useed for JPA queries.

More details: http://tomaszdziurko.pl/2012/07/hibernate-smoke-detector/

= Hibernate Smoke Detector =

Hibernate Smoke Detector is simple but quite useful parser that checks your application and helps to eliminate identical
queries fired many times in a very short period of time.

It generates a report showing which queries are executed most times and when so developer could find them in his code easily.
Using this mini-application should help you to avoid some problems with your queries that often go to the production
unnoticed: N+1 problems and duplicated queries checking condition on the same page/view.

== How it works ==

* Set up logger in your application to write all hql queries to a separate file
* Run your end-to-end tests (in our case Selenium tests) or just let testers do some clicking through your application
* Get sources from https://github.com/tdziurko/hibernate-smoke-detector
* mvn clean install
* Run Hibernate Smoke Detector with your log file: java -jar hibernate-smoke-detector/target/hibernate-smoke-detector-1.0-jar-with-dependencies.jar [your_log_file] >  [your_report_file]
* Analyze the report and fix problems.

Hibernate Smoke Detector counts how many each query was executed in each second, then compiles report starting from queries that have the highest counter. Currently the only drawback is that parser works only with specific date time format in the logs:

pattern="%d{HH:mm:ss,SSS} %-5p [%c] %s%E%n"

This part of log is indispensable so parser could put each query to the proper "date-time basket", so if you want to use if out of the box, you should setup your logger accordingly. If you can not change date format in hql log file, you have to fork the project and modify source code a little bit.

* Author: Tomasz Dziurko
* Source code: https://github.com/tdziurko/hibernate-smoke-detector/

== Download ==

Clone this repository and run
